all the center
lines all the center
[Music]
lines hey hey hey hi hi everybody Adam
Savage here in my cave
uh recently we've put up a few videos
about the fact that I reorganized the
cave uh I significantly reorganized the
IP
cave this room is fairly similar to what
it was except that it's more open
because I was able to move a lot of
stuff out of this room and into this
room so this big room has become sort of
my hardware store and another workspace
sorry about the creaking and then this
store is this room is more like my main
fabrication room where the machine tools
are it's like tools here hardware store
there work happens everywhere 15 years
ago or so my then cameraman on
MythBusters Tim Al would introduce me to
a system called
sortimo we've talked about it many times
on the channel here S O R T Mo this is
their t- boox with two x's one of my
favorite um Parts sorting designs in the
world with indexable and removable
compartments um and a clear
top I spent some real money back when I
was making television money um
outfitting myself with a whole bunch of
IP
sortos and cross referencing them with
alphabetized cross reference list it's
been a fantastic system here in the cave
and here they are in the hardware store
space uh and I have an issue with them
here despite their amazing utility which
is that every time I need something from
one of them I've got to pull it out and
find like a horizontal surface like this
table here to put it on so I can open it
up recently I acquired something
at a garage sale in San
Francisco I picked up this set of
drawers now they were full of a bunch of
stainless hardware and they're fantastic
but what I love most about them is what
you just saw happen pull it out open it
up get what you need
inside and I never had to take this
whole bin out to find a horizontal
surface for it
why this drawer system seems quite
useful and then I took a look at the
sortos and I discovered that they
themselves have uh uh uh what looks like
artifacts for drawer slides here for
some sort of catch system so I attempted
to make some drawer slides that held
them with like um with little blocks of
acrylic out here and it was too
um it didn't
work there are mechanical reasons it
didn't work they're not important here
because that's not the solution I ended
up going with the solution I ended up
IP
going with was to realize that I want
the same thing that those blue drawers
provide which is an actual metal shelf
that goes under one side across the
bottom and up the other side and that
those could attach to the drawer
IP
slides so all I needed was a single
sheet of aluminum and a pair of drawer
slides for each of the sordo cabinets
and
this this is what
we
this is the first test this is my my my
uh my try out of this now this is the
very first drawer I built
um it has a little high here this is the
second one and I kind of worked out some
of the Kinks on that and as you can see
the drawer goes in the drawer goes in
here nice and right so now so now
theoretically if I had this system going
I can can pull out the drawer open it up
get what I need put it
back
and I no longer have to hunt for a
horizontal surface every time this is
what it led to is every time I needed
something as small as one of the parts
in here I needed a table space this
big every single time that's fine at the
beginning of the day when there's only a
couple Tools in my workbench but within
an hour of barking on any project
there's like 40 50 tools lurking
about 40 or 50 okay maybe that's a
little too much but within like within a
short period of time all the horizontal
surfaces are covered with the project at
hand that is just a natural course of
things so I desire to make a drawer
system like this for all of my sortos in
there what does that actually
mean it means a lot of draw slides it
means a lot of pieces of aluminum it
means
a a study in um the specific kind of
manufacturing that is among the most
tedious and time
eating a particular facet of making
stuff is when you have to make many of
IP
one thing whenever you have to make many
many I'm not talking like 10 I'm talking
like 50 100 whenever you're in numbers
like that every operation can
add hours to your day if you have 70
things to make and you add a one minute
task that's well over an hour right
so suffice to say that when you are
embarking on making many efficiency is
super super important and I've been
cogitating this whole operation for for
weeks refining it refining it refining
it breaking down to simpler and simpler
pieces and chunks for instance I have to
[Music]
cut let's take a look at this piece of
aluminum here right so we've got a uh
we've got a piece of aluminum that's
bent up on the sides bent up on the back
the back is riveted to the sides and to
the drawer slides and there are punches
for the drawer slides for the rivets now
that means I've got a sheet of aluminum
I have to make four Cuts in 2 3 4 two
holes in uh sorry uh six holes in 1 2 3
IP
4 five six and four
bends 70 pieces of
aluminum four cuts each six holes each
four bends each I I can take one piece
of aluminum and do that in you know 15
minutes
yeah 15 minutes so let's extrapolate
that out uh 15 minutes that's 4 per hour
that means uh I would get 60 done
in 3
hours hold on all my math is wrong let
me at 15 minutes per times SE 15 minutes
a piece that's almost at 15 minutes per
sheet of aluminum that's over 18 hours
of work that's more than two full days
of my labor and I think I can go faster
um there's a company here in San
Francisco called Max metals and they
were able to deliver 70 sheets of
aluminum to me identically the same size
like this um I don't have
my I don't have the exact dimensions of
this off the top of my head but uh Max
medals did a beautiful job and it was
very reasonably priced I used um for
this project I used
040 that's 40,000 or 1 mm thick 6061
aluminum that number delineates uh your
standard aircraft alloy of aluminum um
now I had to
make four Cuts in each sheet and two of
them are really easy cuts cuz they're
these Cuts it's just this big diagonal
that separates the side Bend from the
front Bend um I was bble to do that on
my table saw um I built I built a
template this template with a uh a rack
in the back to guide it in the table
saws frame and I simply chucked the
piece of aluminum in here like
IP
this and made the cut here you can see
it
here that's how it went that that was
the cut when you have to make a ton of
cuts in sheets of metal or wood like
this this kind of template is amazing it
I was able to do this in stacks of 10
and five minutes so that was the first
two cuts for all 70 sheets now I have to
make the second two cuts and it's more
complex because back here in this um
back here in the corner here I want the
back to Bend forward and connect to both
the side and the drawer slide that's a
precise little hole Arrangement and it
means I have to cut a piece out of the
corner like this the striped part is
what gets cut
out this is a tough part to cut out um
specifically uh that cut I can do on a
band saw and that cut I can do on a band
saw but that
cut it's a little more tough so I think
IP
what I'm actually going to
do is I'm going to stack all 70 sheets
on the bed of my Mill milling machine
and I'm going to come in here with
basically like a half in Milling
bit and I'm going to cut a hole here
like that that hole will allow me to
make these two cuts on the band saw
they'll just meet the hole boop
boop so drilling the hole in all 70
sheets that's two holes across them one
and two that should take less than 15
minutes and then the other Cuts just
another few minutes you know maybe like
30 minutes to do all the rest of the
cuts however before I do those
cuts I require to make the punches in
the sides uh to match the drawer slides
one of the nice things about full
extension drawer slides for installation
is that you can remove uh usually the
third extension and just attach this to
your piece
so this piece
dictates my um
my hole position right yeah it's that to
that
[Music]
and so that's the location of the two
holes this is a hole punch this is a
hole punch it punches a beautiful 1/8
inch hole so what I need to do is be
able to cut that
hole Yeah I got to
there and
then the other one is there okay
so if that is that
right so this means that I always get
the depth correct right because I'm
coming
in coming
in I guess I don't have to I can make
that cut now and then I can do all the
the whole whole drilling later okay I
thought that
[Music]
I it is easy for me to get too abstract
about all the component parts I was
IP
thinking I had to punch the holes before
I made these Cuts but I don't think I
have to I think popping the holes is the
last thing
[Music]
before before we start to actually do
the bending so first I'm going to let's
get to this part let's get to these
[Music]
holes
who
[Music]
there you go that's the two holes
drilled in all 70 sheets at once and I'm
aware I know what you're think thinking
you're like hey why don't you just uh
Chuck that into your table saw and do
that slice all at once and
[Music]
like
no no no we're going to make this corner
cut uh a sheet at a time and we'll get
through all 70 in well less than 30
minutes I
[Music]
believe
all right there they are the
they're all finished now it's just time
to work out the hole
[Music]
punching all
right
okay so if
do
that do
[Music]
it
so I have completed the cutting and the
hole punching for 70 actually
yeah I have 65 perfect pieces that's how
many drawers I need so we're going to go
over to the metal break now and set that
puppy up but first i'm going to have a
meeting and I'm going to come back after
the meeting it won't make any any
difference to you you won't notice but
I'll see you in a minute okay
um my sheets are fully punched did I
just go over this sheets are ready for
bending um and just like all the other
I've set this up so I have the same
amount of distance from the back as I do
from the sides so I don't need to change
those orientations but I'm not going to
do them all in one I'm going to do all
the back bends
first and then I'm going to do the sides
and you'll see it's a there's a there's
a process uh but we're going
[Music]
to just get a little bit of more
tightening going
[Music]
on so I have to I have to get this right
right now
that's not quite
night too far
[Music]
off
what I end up with there is some really
ni a nice Bend there that's really great
that's
ideal and that one too that's nice those
that's um that's an extra bit of
structure I'm getting out of this uh and
then the last Bend will be
the so do I do all the back bends first
is the question
crazy
no I'm going to have
to
oh that's great I don't mind that at
[Music]
all
so it starts like
this you start with you
do
[Music]
yeah I like
that all right let's do a
stopwatch
all right I'm I'm
uh I have completed 40 drawers worth of
bending I have 25 to go they're all
right
here um the big issues with the drawer
slides is
parallelism so I don't want any of these
lines to get bowed out those lines have
to be nice and straight and they got to
be super
parallel um because it's aluminum it is
somewhat
adjustable I have some adjustability but
my job is made a lot easier if I start
out parallel and Straight Orlando comes
in tomorrow and we're going to start him
off doing some rivet holes in these guys
and then uh attaching the third stage
drawer slides to all of
them um and then to start marking out
our big pieces of 3/4 inch we got some
3/4 inch Birch ply not great it's Birch
finish but inside it's like a horror
show it's like garbage dump in there
uh however it's perfectly structural for
us what we're going to end up doing is
we're going to end up building a uh a
rack of three stacks of 13 and a second
rack of two stacks of
13 why why those breakdowns I thought of
doing two two in one and then I realized
that three and two use the least amount
of uprights of wood I get some real
efficiencies that way uh to make a three
stack I only need four pieces of wood
and to make a two stack I only need
three um so that's seven total plus
enough um this work is tiring in a
particular way
um and I I often like keep it
interesting by this job is actually
almost this is big enough
that how do I say this I often I often
assuage the tum I often ass swash the
tedium of a job like this by doing math
in my head watching the clock and seeing
how many I'm getting done seeing how
fast it's going um I will say also when
you're working with sheet metal your
hands get just carved to ribbons with
paper cuts
[Music]
um however all of this is looking really
really
great
uh
yeah I don't know could we be assembling
these by the end of the day
tomorrow oh right we're not doing a live
stre tomorrow we're doing that the next
day all right uh but right now I'm going
to go home and feed Maggie and prep for
dinner we're having some friends over so
I will see you guys in 20 seconds but
for me 15 hours or so
[Music]
bye
okay with um 65 some OD there may be an
extra one or two here uh drawer slides
all installed the third stage of each of
the full extension slides is installed
on my drawer they're nice and rigid I'm
really happy with how flat everything is
I'm going to I'm going to set up some
wood here on the table as a kind of
quality control and I'm going to just
take a look at the parallelism of all of
these I'm just going to give a a check
and if some of them are slightly out of
size I may gather those
together everything depends on these all
being the same as each other and given
that I punch the holes At Con den
den distances and that I bent them at
constant
[Music]
distances that was a rough one uh they
should be really
close oh we're going to find
out by the way the one that I ended up
with extra specifically does not have a
removal pin here and you actually can
see it you can actually kind of see it
in there but for some reason it's not
coming out and rather than
troubleshooted I bought enough then I
just TOS this one by the
[Music]
wayside
here you can see this see that those
look
great
right those these look pretty
[Music]
good this is bad this is bad and it's
boring uh my Headstrong progress is
halted cuz I have to undo all of
these they're totally
bad so uh yeah that's what I'm doing I
got to undo them
[Music]
all maybe I I should give you an shot my
issue here is that there's no
consistency it's off here off by an
eight there off by an eight and I think
I know what I need to do but first I
just need to undo all of these which is
really
[Music]
boring
I I should point out this is making in a
nutshell thinking you have gleaned or
gained
some insight into a process only to find
it vexes you at the last possible
second I've been here before oh there we
go I just want to saay for the record
I'm like 15 minutes into cleaning up and
I don't want to clean up right now I
like want to go home and sit in a
funk but there's really no reason to
have a funk this is really remarkable
this is amazing I this is the best shelf
thing that's ever happened in my shop
these are the ones I took out I'm going
to throw them look I just wanted to stop
and tell you that I don't want to clean
up right now and yet I'm cleaning
up that's how that works
sometimes it's a new day it's a new dawn
it's a new life for me yeah it's a new
day it's a new
dawn and I'm
feeling
[Music]
good the clows look at that five five
five five stacks of
[Music]
13 that one still
sticks I was so vexed last night
um anyway I'll fix that that's
fixable the next thing
so we're very close to moving in uh
notice that I have put casters under
every upright that's
because the amount of weight these
things hold is a
hidden is um it's more than you think my
bearings my bearings been alone is like
12 lb so anyway I didn't want any droop
this wasn't the best Plywood And that's
actually a key issue for me the plywood
here looks
really yeah it's
like y hold on I'll show
you here's my um
here is a
lesson
and there we
go this is why I don't like app ply with
this is the Live Edge wait wait wait
first let's take a look at my why am my
head there we go first let's take a look
at my bread and butter plywood which is
Baltic Birch ply and you get those like
look at how pretty that is and that is
uniform that edge of the Baltic Birch
play can be used as a design element and
to be fair to be really fair to a ACX
3/4 in uh Lumberyard ply
like it's always kind of like this it's
not bad our local Lumbard has a sale on
this ply with a nice service finish but
inside
it's look at this I I mean listen I
don't begrudge people their
manufacturing methods that's fine I'm
glad to pay less for this plywood but
like when you look at it up close it's
freaking head cheese anyway it's hideous
to look
upon I didn't know I would have a point
of view about that that's the funny
thing about a point of view you don't
often knows what yours is until it
arrives anyway uh the next thing I want
to do I'm going to slice I've got some
I've got some nice regular wood in a in
a in
a I'm basically going to cut some wood
dressing strips and I'm going to dress
the fronts of these 1 2 3 4 5 six seven
uprights it's a lot of things but yeah
I'm going to do that to make it look
nice isn't that nice isn't that much
nicer look at
that there's that and there's that you
may wonder why I left this little
um this little boop boop right here
that's actually where the alphabetical
list goes of everything that's in there
mhm I might even go up to
like 12p Point type something I don't
know I had a pretty
small sh it's time it's time we're going
to
[Music]
um sordos come out shelves go in sordos
go in here's how this
go happen let's
see
so first
[Music]
up come
on
hey there um so I have just
completed the
installation of my 65 sordo trays each
one comes out and allows
access
um now it's time to populate it I've
changed some of the ordering
numbers so I'm basically about to do a
complete repopulation of this and then
tonight I'm going to build a new a new
uh spreadsheet of all of the articles
that are in here
uhhuh
so yeah I'm just going to ask uh my uh
computer to play some
music and uh then we're going to uh
we're going to do
[Music]
this
yeah it's
happening this is so much
work so much work here um
but the reor has happened now it's time
to document I know I've been taping it
I've
been recording
it and look at all these old
sordos yes don't worry if you're
wondering if some of those will become
available they
will but right now it's time for me to
go through I have 65 slots I have used
63 of them which is an addition of an
addition of uh five more than I had
before I didn't expect to fill five I
still have some baby fat left over in
some of the some of these and I have two
extras way down here that are completely
empty completely Blue Sky could be
anything they
want so now it's time to build the
spreadsheet
um maybe I should have opened with this
everything is labeled on its face with
the main things that it
has but there are all sorts of
subcategories that aren't represented by
the labels here this is the broad like
hey where is that thing and things are
roughly categorically where they should
be for in instance everything that's
rivet is here Springs and npt fittings
O-rings rubber corks all that stuff uh
lives here nuts and bolts are almost
this entire column uh uh this is also a
lot of nuts and bolts but also some
spacers and things over here this entire
column is almost all
Electronics um this one is ancillary
stuff handles jewelry things like that
but what I want is a picture of every
single case yeah then I'm going to load
all 63 of those pictures in and build a
brand new Excel spreadsheet from
scratch yeah that's what we're going to
do when you have a maker shop when you
have a general maker
shop categorization is so
difficult and I have I have too many
electronics things to fit solely into
like one even one column of this because
there are bigger things in electronics
so I've got the a whole airplane food
cart devoted to electronics with the
soldering station on top and all of that
and in there was stuff that was doubled
up over here that I didn't even know
about
I also discovered my nut rivet insert
anyway I it's not worth going over
but this is a great exercise to do
um to be
clear what I'm going to end up with is a
list like this one
W which is a list of everything pop
rivets they're in number three not here
this is the last or or organization L
brackets oh nice
um and so the the the the the mo is I'm
going to go through I've taken a picture
of every single container here they are
you can take a look at them I stand here
I take a picture like
this and as long as I take only one
picture per container I have 60 two full
containers here the moment I load them
into my
computer and air dropped them over which
happened beautifully uh they there's 62
of them so uh in Bridge I did a battery
name starting at number 01 and low the
names of each individual picture in here
is sordo right now I'm on sordo 45 and I
can see a uh there we go that's what I
see in sordo 45 I come on over here and
I pull out this connector you will see
ho ho it is the selfsame one I've picked
literally the hardest one to close in
this entire rack uh because it's got all
this extra wire sticking up it needs a
little bit of swaging it's uh it's hard
with these things that have long tails
still I prefer this mode of uh
storage to nearly any other uh there we
go good
um and so then I sit there and I I open
up an Excel spreadsheet which I've got
right here and I do 45 I have connectors
and I know that actually I'm going to do
connect
doors X X
LR uh I'm going to go back and do 45 XL
x
XLR
connectors um I've got Barrel connectors
I've
got
45 barrel connectors 45 connectors
barrel
45 uh
alligator
clips
[Music]
um what do you call those oh uh those
are
connectors
assorted
um those called those are
called RCA
connectors so 45 back I don't pull each
one out I only pulled this one out to
show you
um so that
46 if I load it up here's 46
now I have all the things I need for 46
and I just start going back and forth
and doing uh
46 this is incandescent
lights and this is
46 wait that's 50
wait oh it's upside down that's why I
was oh yes yes yes whoop whoop whoop 59
oh we're into the costume
jewelry I took I am no good at
Excel but I'm good enough to make it
work here so then what I want to do is I
want to uh let's see I think I
want to move this one there and this one
all right I figured it out uh I first I
start with the numbers in the left
column and then I fill in all the stuff
on the right then I move the numbers
column over to the other side select
both and do sort but only by column A
alphabetically that's how this works oh
my goodness I have to
go